 Well, let's discuss these latest developments further now with Wolfgang Posti, who joins us from Vienna. He's a security policy and defense analyst. Here in the studio in Doha, we have Muhammad al-Masri, Professor at the Doha Institute for Graduate Studies, and Al-Jazeera's Resourced Arhuz reported extensively from Iran. Resour, let me start with you, in fact. Why is Iran attacking goal-sates energy infrastructure and how is it gaming the outcome? Well, for Iranians, I think they have been quite clear. Now, what they're implementing is what they have been seeing in the last couple of weeks. So again, again, we have heard from the Iran officials that in case of the war they're going to do two things. First, they're going to raise the course for Washington, and to force Washington to think it twice. They were hoping that Washington is going to reassess his position and seeing that the war is going to be extremely critical for them and maybe changing their posture. And second one, regionalizing the war. So bringing a huge course for the regional countries and forcing the regional countries that somehow they will put pressure on Washington and changing the U.S. or the trajectory of the Iran events against Iran. So here, they are implementing these two policies as the strategy of the deterrence. Now they have started, in the first day, they have started by attacking the U.S. military facilities, which by many, it was on the screen. I've never heard of the U.S. But no one expected them to go as far as attacking energy in this country. They were thinking that. Whether. Because the first news agency, which is affiliated with the Revolutionary Guards, constantly was sharing the pictures of the energy facilities across the region. And now, so they are heating the energy resources, the facilities, and the airports. This is where it hurts most because the whole image of the Gulf is based on that. However, my concern is that. If that will not be enough for Iranians to see that the regional countries are not putting enough pressure on Washington, then the Turkish-Stage Gulf Command in the Turkish-Stage, Iran could start targeting the strategic depots that are preserved for the wartime, such as food depots and the water supplies. And if that is not going to have in the fourth stage, it could start attacking the residential areas, same well if your children are dying, then your children are also going to be. But that is quite concerning. But I'm going to be before I come to you about how my Gulf states respond. I just wanted to ask Wolfgang about the Iranian strategy militarily. Does the pattern of strikes that we've seen from Iran Wolfgang suggest a deliberate campaign against these targets or something more fragmented and improvised? Well, it's in part an organized campaign. It's far it is centrally controlled from Tehran and in part it's more improvised, especially regarding to some drone site commanders who are not really in touch with their headquarters in Tehran anymore and who are allowed to strike targets that they believe makes most sense. Let me briefly add with regard to likeness of an extended air campaign of Iran against civilian and infrastructure targeting the Gulf states. It is certainly not in the interest, not in the interest of Iran to become the subject the target of a retaliation of the Gulf states. Well, must be aware that not only the efforts of Qatar but also Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have hundreds, hundreds of modern sophisticated fighter jets and Iran cannot have any interest whatsoever to become subject to a strike from these powerful air forces. Mohammed al-Masri on the possible retaliation of Gulf states, they have so far appeared to be cautious about direct military involvement. Do you see their position as primarily a deterrent message or is there a scenario where they could be actively involved militarily? Well, I do think there is a scenario and I think it depends in part on some of what the Saudi was saying and the extent to which Iran is going to apply pressure. But I've been saying for a couple of days now, I see this response or potential response one of two directions. Either they could really ramp up pressure on the US administration. Basically tell the Trump administration that enough is enough. We can't tolerate this any longer. You need to stop this war and apply pressure on Netanyahu to make sure that he stops from his and as well. That's one possibility. But can they do they have that leverage today? I think the Gulf states have quite a lot of leverage. I've said this in many contexts over the past couple of years. They have a lot of levers. There's a huge amount of economic investment that the Gulf countries provide to the United States. They've promised, they've pledged, upwards of depending on the estimates, potentially two trillion dollars. It's an awful lot of money. That's one thing that they just one lever that they could pull. There are other oil and natural gas prices that they can manipulate as well potentially. But the other possibility is, and this is more to your point, they could take a more aggressive stance toward Iran. And either engage Iran directly, which I think at this point is unremains very unlikely, or they could open their bases up to the Americans. Let's remember that they've told the Americans so far that they do not want these bases to be used for attacks on Iran. But if they were to allow the Americans to do that, then that would provide even greater edge to the Americans and the Israelis, that though is also unlikely, because they will then be seen as cooperating with the Americans and the Israelis. They're in a very difficult position, aren't they? Resort Wolfgang made an interesting point about reports that Iranian drone operations are not fully centralized. Do you know about the current state of command and control any Iran following the killing of the Supreme Leader? How in control are they of the military? One of the first hint about what is the current situation of the IRGC is what has happened two days ago. So an energy facility in Iran came under attack. Now that was quite surprising, because Iran has been the main mediator since decades, even before this Islamic revolution. Whenever Iran is mediating or having a diplomatic problem with the world, so Uman would be there. And so that has been asked to the Iraqi for a certain Iranian foreign minister, Abbas Iraq said that, well, it was not a central decision. Meaning it was a mistake and he said that there has been some isolated units, which were conducting the pre-planned action. So I'm not sure of that. So IRGC is simply saying that we have adopted a strategy of decentralization because in the last world, during that 12 days, due to over-centralization, it was extremely difficult, the command change to work and operations to work smooth. And in some cases, one particular communications are interrupted, so they could not act, but based on the preparations, so some local removed units have been authorized that based on their own risk assessment, they can develop the strategies. So that is very well possible. However, it's impossible to verify this, because in many cases what we are seeing is that, despite again, again being attacked. Despite all the warning, since October 7th, on war, Iran has always been caught off guard. So and that is the main question, why not are you going to be ready? So is it a part of the strategy or simply it is because of the lack of proper organization and planning? Okay, a Wolfgang your thoughts about what Russell said there, and also how long can Iran sustain this current military campaign as it stands? Iran can sustain the military campaign against Israel only for a limited time, because they are running out of especially important transport and rectal launches. They more by launching systems for the mid-range ballistic missiles. They are able to sustain the campaign against the Gulf States much longer, because they have a larger quantity of short-range ballistic missiles, more than 1,200, allegedly even 1,500, and hundreds of these mobile launching systems that can be used to launch short-range ballistic missiles against the Gulf States. And moreover, they have more than 10,000 from the mid-12th and 15,000 combat drones that can be used. And these combat drones are not so much a threat to Israel, because they have a long warning notice before the drones arriving Israel, and that's quite different with the Gulf States, here we are talking about minutes. So those drones are a bigger threat to the Gulf States than to Israel. And I assume that Iran would be able to continue the campaign against the Gulf States by much longer period of time. But the question is, does it really make sense for them for the directive of the Gulf States in the world? A moment your thoughts about this, and how calibrated do you think Iran's targeting decisions are right now? Look, there's a sports analogy. They say every in boxing, they say everyone has a plan until they're punched in the mouth. And I don't doubt that the Iranians made extensive preparations over the past several months in particular since the June war. But they've been hit quite hard over the past few days. By the Israelis and the Americans, the leadership structure has obviously been compromised. And as Rosal was saying, we don't exactly know to what extent of the command and control structure is intact. So they're in a very difficult position. But I also think that they view this as kind of existential. And so they're going to be to use another boxing analogy. They're going to be throwing haymakers. I mean, I think that they realize that it's kind of fighter die in some respect. So I think they're digging their heels in and planning on a long war. Right. Now, if they're planning on a long war, when it comes to these Israelis and Americans, Mohammed, they seem to be a divergence as to how long this can go for. Go on for. We heard from President Trump talking about four, five weeks, possibly. But Netanyahu is saying this can be quick. What does that say to you about the strategy, the objectives from these Israelis and the Americans, and how whether it can succeed given that they seem to be a divergence. Yeah. Well, I think there's clearly an inconsistency. There's still kind of looking for a common narrative. But I think it just underscores that kind of what Marco Rubio said yesterday that Israel forced America's hand in this. I'm of the mind that the United States didn't necessarily want this war, at least not now. But it was Benjamin Netanyahu again kind of getting his way with Donald Trump and it's ironic as many have noted that the America first president has become almost kind of Israel first during this second term. So look, I think Israel wants chaos. I don't think that there, I certainly don't think this is about nuclear weapon. I don't necessarily think it's about regime change. I think they want a collapsed state. I think they want a weakened region all around them so that they can emerge as the only hegemon. Right. Wolfgang, your thoughts, you know, when Washington says the objective is to destroy Iran's missile and nuclear capabilities, what does that actually require militarily and who, you know, between President Trump and Netanyahu, who is right on the timeline, Trump says five weeks, possibly Netanyahu says quicker. What are your thoughts? The current discussion about the timeline is part of information warfare. I would say the Americans have planned for a war for just a few weeks, just a few weeks until they have reached their objective that they would be able to enable local resistance movements, for example, among the Kurds, to take over at least part of the country. I would say the decision to start the war was definitely the decision by the US President of the country. Why? If the Iranians would have continued their nuclear program, and if they would have really priority deeper underground as the information from the US suggests, and if they would have enhanced the air defense system, the modern Chinese and Russian air defense systems, the task for the Americans and these railings to strike Iran in a couple of years would have been much more difficult. If the information about the nuclear program is through, yes or no, I don't know. I think no one knows other than the Iranians and maybe the Americans and these railings. I expect the conflict to continue for a few more weeks in a very harsh way, in a very harsh seeing very harsh strikes by the Americans in these railings. At times, I don't expect this to become a war over several months. Why? One point is that President Trump would never have agreed to such a long war in the face of the upcoming midterm elections. Right. Ristle finally, as I think everyone agrees, and one at said, this is an existential crisis for Iran. If the goal is regime change for the Americans and Israelis, Israelis would see more, can they succeed in elevating a pragmatic leader within Iran and insider, whose capable of recalibrating policy even if the system is still in place? I think that is extremely, extremely difficult, and I don't think that Americans and Israelis are looking for a quick regime change. Because of couple of those raises, first, in Iran, there are millions who hate this regime and one is to bring it down. But on the other hand, it has millions also that are extremely loyal to the regime. How do we know that? Just 18 months ago, 2023, when there was a presidential election. So the ultra-conservative candidate side generally has received 13 million of awards. And those who voted for Mr. Pizichkano, not necessarily anti-regime, have all them are loyal to the regime, so roughly based on the simple matter we're talking about 20 people, 20 million people. It's not a typical Middle Eastern dictatorship that it's holding on the weapons and imposing its wheels on people. Yes, there is a growing public frustration, and there is a growing public discontent with the regime, however it still has a very huge base as well. That's one said, but on the other hand, so IRGC is not merely an army. It is a political, ideological, and economic pillar of the Islamic Republic. And these guys are not going to just surrender, submitting weapons and leave just because they came under the pressure. So they will stay there because it is their revolution and it is their state. So as long as the army is in place and as long as the regime still have millions that support it, I don't think that's going to happen anytime soon. Eventually, yes, but not in any foreseeable regime. So briefly, Muhammad, your thoughts about that, the regime, the system remaining in place in Iran, can the American succeed in finding someone to take over, even with the system in place, let's say a scenario like they have in Venezuela right now, with Delsea Rodriguez in place, but the system is still in place. The short answer is I don't think there is a quicker, easy path to doing that, especially without putting boots on the ground. I just wanted to say something I thought Wolfgang said was really, really interesting about the nuclear program. However, I would just say this, if this were really about the nuclear program, we all know that there is a much easier path to ensuring that Iran doesn't get a nuclear weapon. And that is the path of negotiations. We know that it was the United States and Donald Trump that walked away from the Iran nuclear deal. The United States that's refused to engage seriously and substantively at every stage in the second term with a negotiated agreement. All right, gentlemen, thank you for a very interesting discussion about these developments. Wolfgang Pussai, a resource that are here in Doha and Muhammad al-Masri, thanks to all three of you.